the word paresis PA re s is like the
word paralysis is not a pathologic term
it's a clinical term paresis is like
paralysis it usually implies impaired
motor activity secondary usually
frequently or perhaps always to
underlying central nervous system
disease syphilis in its severe
inflammatory form caused a condition
called general paresis in which there
was significant impairment of muscle
let's take a look at this brain which
has producing the syndrome general
paresis the first thing you could notice
is that for some reason the blood
vessels stand out very nicely another
thing that you could notice if there's
appears to be in general and increase in
the glial cells so we have gliosis we
have prominent standing out blood
vessels and lo and behold in some of
these blood vessels you appear to have
little cuff of inflammatory cells almost
like an encephalitis like you see
classically with the viral encephalitis
in addition you could see in part of a
ventricle here I assume it's a ventricle
because it's land by ependymal cells and
there's portion of a choroid plexus in
it you can see that there is some
inflammation so inflammatory cells
surrounding the blood vessels in the
choroid plexus as well in addition to
having increased blood vessels some of
which are cuffed by inflammatory cells
gliosis we also see a blood vessels in
which there is a significant cuffing of
lymphocytes around the blood vessels as
well like here in here in here this is a
very very very common and often routine
hallmark feature of an encephalitis and
although it is most characteristic of
the viral encephalitis in this case we
could see cuffing of this blood vessel
by these lymphocytes in the theoretical
or potential space called the vir cow
rabun space of the brain this is an
encephalitis pathologically clinically
is producing a syndrome called paresis
and thank you very much